# SQL Essentials

## Basic Syntax
- Learn the fundamental syntax of SQL queries, including selecting, filtering, and ordering data.
- The SELECT statement retrieves data from a database table.
Syntax:
```sql
SELECT column1, column2, ...
FROM table_name
WHERE condition;
```
Replace column1, column2, etc. with the specific columns you want to retrieve.
Specify the table_name from which you’re fetching data.
Optionally, use the WHERE clause to filter rows based on specific conditions.

## Filtering Data:
Use the WHERE clause to filter rows based on specific conditions.
Example:
```sql
SELECT product_name, price
FROM products
WHERE category = 'Electronics';
```
This query retrieves the names and prices of products in the “Electronics” category.

##Ordering Data:

The ORDER BY clause sorts query results based on a specified column.
Syntax:
```sql
SELECT column1, column2, ...
FROM table_name
WHERE condition
ORDER BY column ASC/DESC;
```
Replace column with the column you want to sort by.
Use ASC for ascending order (default) or DESC for descending order.

## Data Definition Language (DDL)
- Explore DDL statements for creating, modifying, and deleting database objects (tables, indexes, views).

## Data Manipulation Language (DML)
- Discover DML statements for inserting, updating, and deleting data in database tables.

## Data Query Language (DQL)
- Master DQL statements to retrieve data based on specified criteria.

## Constraints
- Understand data integrity using constraints (primary keys, foreign keys, unique constraints, check constraints).

## Functions and Aggregates
- Learn about SQL functions and aggregates for calculations and transformations.

## Views
- Create and manage virtual tables (views) derived from SQL query results.

## Stored Procedures and Functions
- Understand stored procedures and functions for reusable SQL code execution.

## Indexes and Performance Optimization
- Optimize query performance using indexes.

## Transactions and Concurrency Control
- Maintain data consistency in multi-user environments.

## Security
- Learn SQL security principles for controlling access to data.

## Advanced SQL Features
- Handle complex queries and performance optimization.

