[this is the link] of sql theory
  (https://docs.google.com/document/d/1K9y7Yhw7w0SQQfyf2kqnN3PTrDaMQEJIP8mpEbMD_dA/edit?usp=sharing.)

SQL (Structured Query Language) is the database language used to perform operations on existing databases and create new ones. It utilizes commands like CREATE, DROP, INSERT, etc., to carry out tasks.

## SQL Commands Categories:

SQL commands are categorized into five categories:

- DDL (Data Definition Language)
- DQL (Data Query Language)
- DML (Data Manipulation Language)
- DCL (Data Control Language)
- TCL (Transaction Control Language)

### DDL (Data Definition Language):

DDL consists of commands used to define the database schema. It deals with descriptions of the database schema and is used to create and modify the structure of database objects.

- **CREATE:** Used to create database objects.
- **DROP:** Used to delete objects from the database.
- **ALTER:** Used to alter the structure of the database.
- **TRUNCATE:** Used to remove all records from a table.
- **COMMENT:** Used to add comments to the data dictionary.
- **RENAME:** Used to rename an object existing in the database.

### DQL (Data Query Language):

DQL statements are used for performing queries on the data within schema objects. It allows getting data from the database and imposing order upon it.

- **SELECT:** Used to retrieve data from the database.

### DML (Data Manipulation Language):

DML commands deal with the manipulation of data present in the database.

- **INSERT:** Used to insert data into a table.
- **UPDATE:** Used to update existing data within a table.
- **DELETE:** Used to delete records from a database table.

### DCL (Data Control Language):

DCL commands deal with rights, permissions, and other controls of the database system.

### TCL (Transaction Control Language):

TCL commands are used to control the execution of a transaction.

- **BEGIN:** Opens a transaction.

In the given dataset, SQL commands such as DDL and DQL have been used, including SELECT, SUM, WHERE, GROUP BY, ORDER BY, etc.

```sql
-- Example SQL Queries:
SELECT * FROM crimecases;
SELECT * FROM crimecases WHERE extensionct = 'Murder';
SELECT * FROM crimecases ORDER BY casesreopened DESC;
SELECT extensionct, SUM(casesreopened) AS cases_reopened FROM crimecases GROUP BY crimetype;
8mpEbMD_dA/edit?usp=sharing.)
